Welcome back.
Let's start off with the iterative approach that is no recursion if we want to run the function let's
say find factorial iterative five while we can create a variable let's say cancer and for now this answer
will be one and all we're going to do is do a for loop will say Let i have cost zero or in our case
to simplify things.
Let's start at two and I'm going to explain in a second why we want to start a two to say I is less
than the number and then we're going to increment by 1.
Now why are we starting add to.
You might notice a short cut here.
1 factorial is just one two factorial is two times 1 which is just two.
So these last two bits.
If somebody says one factorial or two factorial which is just simply return the number that they've
entered because there's no real calculation that we need to do.
So this is a little shortcut so we avoid extra loops but just saying that if the number that the user
enters is let's say 2.
So that is two is not greater than number two.
The way we have it now if somebody enters find factorial iterative 2 we're going to return 1 but instead
we can just say maybe a simple conditional check saying that if number equals two we'll just say that
answer equals to 2.
So that if I ran this function and just say to I get two if I say one I get one and there's other checks
that we can do obviously.
But for our case this is good enough.
Let's look at what we can do inside of here.
Well the way factorial works is to simply say answer is going to equal answer times by.
So that if I click Quraan here and let's do five I get 24 which is actually not the right answer because
five times four is 20 times three is well clearly higher than 24.
And that's because of a little mistake here we want to make sure that this is equals because we want
to include the number five.
So if I run this again I get a hundred and twenty which is the right answer five times four is 20 times.
Times three is 60 times two is 120 times one is just 120 perfect.
So hopefully you got that answer correct.
What about the recursive approach.
In the recursive version we'll just do a simple check saying if number is equal to 2 and we can do other
checks as well.
But that should be enough for now for us to create a base case.
So if the number gets to 2 we'll just return to there's our base case.
That's how we stop.
Next we're going to return our recursive version which will simply be number times the function.
And in this function we're just going to say number minus one.
And that's the key here.
We want to always get lower and lower until we hit the base case.
So if I hit run here let's do recursive this time
I'm going to move this up over here and if I had run I also got 120.
And this is a little hard to wrap your mind around.
So you might want to copy this code and open up Google Chrome developer tools like I showed you and
go step by step.
But if we start with the number five here well there's five equal.
No.
Then we'll say five times fine factorial for be our answer just like the diagram that I showed you.
And we keep going and keep going until we hit the base case of does the number equal to.
Now one last bit what do you think the time complexity of these two functions are.
Well one uses a for loop with the loop being the number associated with it.
And we're doing a bit of a shortcut here so it's technically less than of and but because of our big
rules this is still going to beat all of an
the recursive function.
If we look at this we are looping.
How many times.
Well we're calling the function function find factorial recursive recursive the same number of times
as the number itself.
So this also becomes so of an if you've got this question.
Good job.
It's a tough one.
If you didn't don't worry we have another one coming up.
I'll see in the next one.
Babai.